mistress of vernacular Jade a heart
typically green stone until relatively
recently gemstones were believed to have
magical medicinal properties and nothing
was more effective at treating a kidney
disorder than Jade in the 16th century
the Spanish returned from the new world
with the mineral in their cargo holds
and christened it Pietro della a harder
or loin stone it quickly became popular
throughout Europe both as a cure for
internal ailments and as a decorative
ornament and was renamed Jade by the
French a word that was borrowed by the
English and remains in use to this day
in the 19th century French mineralogists
discovered that jade was being used to
describe two distinct minerals jadeite
which takes its name from Jade and the
more common nephrite the root of which
is the Greek word Neph rose meaning
kidney in addition to describing these
two minerals Jade also has an English
hominin with roots that predate the
popularity of the lustral gemstone Jade
was used to refer to either a
disreputable woman or a broken-down
horse thus the word jaded meaning
worn-out or lacking enthusiasm has
nothing to do with the gemstone and
instead comes from the archaic equine
related definition
you